# What Makes Happy Workers?
We are interested in examining the relationship between various working conditions (i.e., working hours, guaranteed paid time off, wages, and poverty rate) and happiness. The regression analysis shows that average annual hours actually worked explains about 18% of the variability in happiness score. Specifically, we see that those who are in the low average annual hours actually worked group are the much happier than those who are in the high and medium group.

In terms of wage, we looked at the Low Income, Lower-Middle Income, Upper-Middle Income, and High Income countries and compared the happiness score among countries in these four income groups. The Student's t-test shows that those who are in the Low Income group are significantly less happy than those in the other three groups. Those who are in the Lower-Middle Income also reported lower happiness scores compared to the Upper-Middle Income and High Income group. Those who are in the High Income countries also reported higher happiness scores than that of those working in the Upper-Middle Income countries.

The regression analysis shows that there is a significant negative relationship between poverty rate and happiness. In other words, as poverty rate decreases people tend to be happier. We also looked at the null hypothesis of whether two or more poverty groups have the same population mean by running the one-way anova test. The result of the anova test rejects the null hypothesis. Further, we performed a post-hoc test to examine the group differences. Results show that those in the lowest poverty rate group are significantly happier than those who are in the middle and highest poverty rate group.

Last but not least, we examined the relationship between guaranteed annual paid time off (i.e., annual paid leave, sum of paternity and maternity leave) and happiness. It is interesting to note that the United States is the only developed country with NO guaranteed annual paid leave, paid paternity, or maternity leave. The regression test shows that guaranteed annual paid leave does not predict a person's self-reported happiness score. As such, the Student's t-test shows that those who have less guaranteed annual paid leave are just as happy as those with more guaranteed annual paid leave. It may not be surprising that we are unable to identify any significant relationship because employees may still be given a reasonable number of paid vacation days regardless of whether there is a nationwide guaranteed leave policy or not.

In examining the last variable of interest, sum of paternity and maternity leave days (parental leave), we found a significant relationship, where parental leave explains a small amount of the variability in happiness scores. A one-way anova test was also conducted to test whether one or more groups (i.e., low, middle, high number of parental leave days group) have the same population mean. The null hypothesis was rejected. Those with the most parental leave days reported significantly higher happiness scores than those with the least parental leave days.
